Jenkins testing environment (#91)
software-platform/monorepo: docs/08_jenkins_testing_enviroment.md

# Jenkins testing environment deployment

> Summary of the proposed change

> Deploy Jenkins testing environment to be able to integrate it with the Metrics app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy Jenkins testing environment to be able to integrate it with the Metrics app and be able to have a more real-world environment for testing.
```

# References

> Link to supporting documentation, GitHub tickets, etc.

[Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/)  
[Google Cloud Jenkins application](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/click-to-deploy/blob/master/k8s/jenkins/README.md)
[Amazon AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)

# Motivation

> What problem is this project solving?

Creating the Jenkins test environment will provide the data for the Metrics application.
The Jenkins test environment will give us the ability to test the whole process of importing and displaying the project metrics data.

# Goals

> Identify success metrics and measurable goals.

* Jenkins server is running and available for testing by anyone in the team.
* Configuration of the Jenkins to run the tests from the test project. 

# Non-Goals

> Identify what's not in scope.

The creation of the test project is not in the scope of this project.

# Design

> Explain and diagram the technical design

`Amazon AWS instance` -> `Jenkins Server`

> Identify risks and edge cases

> Running the builds in the separate docker containers could require an additional configuration.

Reviewer: Could you please clarify this point a bit more? Not sure where do we get separate docker containers? Is it from AWS deployment instructions?

# API

> What will the proposed API look like?

The Jenkins API is described in this article: [Jenkins remote access api](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Remote+access+API).

# Dependencies

> What is the project blocked on?

No blockers.

> What will be impacted by the project?

Testing of the Jenkins integration will be impacted.

# Testing

> How will the project be tested?

This project will be tested manually.

# Alternatives Considered

> Summarize alternative designs (pros & cons)

* Setups Jenkins server on Amazon AWS.
    - Pros:
         - The AWS instance is free for one year.
         - Has an excellent [setup guide](https://d1.awsstatic.com/Projects/P5505030/aws-project_Jenkins-build-server.pdf) that explains how to create an instance and deploy the Jenkins server.
         - Easy to maintain. You could just connect to the AWS instance and use it and use it the way that you would use a computer in front of you.
    - Cons:

>          - You need to configure the AWS instance and firewall rules on your own, which takes a bit more time in comparison to using the Google Kubernetes deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - You need to configure the AWS instance and firewall rules manually via user interface (no automation available), which takes a bit more time in comparison to using the Google Kubernetes deployment.
```

         
         
* Setup Jenkins on Google Kubernetes Engine.
    - Pros:  
         - Easy to set up. The configuration process is fully automated, and it is needed just to configure Jenkins projects.
           It is needed just to go through the [Jenkins Google cloud setup flow](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/google/jenkins).
         - Jenkins has a [free application](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/google/jenkins) on the Google Cloud.
    - Cons: 
         - The Kubernetes Engine is the paid feature of the Google Cloud that uses a couple of other paid features like Compute Engine.

>          - Hard to maintain because you cannot just connect to the instance with the Jenkins server to make any changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - Hard to maintain because you cannot just SSH connect to the instance with the Jenkins server to make any changes. For connection, you need to use CLI "kubectl".
```

         
         
* Serve the Jenkins server using the local machine and ngrok.
    - Pros:

>          - Easy to setup. You need just to run the Jenkins locally and set up the tunnel to the localhost using the ngrok.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - Easy to setup. You need just to run the Jenkins locally and set up the tunnel to the localhost using the ngrok for other users to be able to connect.
```

    - Cons: 
         - Because Jenkins stores the data (pipeline configurations, build, build artifacts, etc.) locally,

>           using the file system, the Jenkins instance should be running on one machine each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          using the file system, the Jenkins instance should be running on the same machine all the time.
```

>          - The server will be very human-sensitive. It means that the instance of Jenkins will be available only when it is running on someone's machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - The server will be very dependent on that configured server availability (app availability, computer availability).
```

         
         
* Setup Jenkins on Google Compute Engine.
    - Pros:

>          - In case the Jenkins server is running on the machine, it will be needed to just connect to this machine using SSH to make any changes to the Jenkins server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - Easy to connect to the container using SSH to make any changes to the Jenkins.
```

    - Cons: 

>          - Pretty complicated setup mechanism.

Reviewer: Can we elaborate a little bit more on why it's complex? Due to the lack of instructions or too many configuration items?

>          - We should set up the Jenkins storage manually in some other place like [Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage).

Reviewer: Can we clarify it a bit more? If we can connect to change configuration why we need to store in some other place?

         - The Compute Engine is a paid feature on the Google Cloud.

# Timeline

> Document milestones and deadlines.

DONE:
  - Investigation of ways to deploy the Jenkins server.
  - Found the best approach to create the Jenkins server.

NEXT:
  - Create the Jenkins server.
  - Set up the test project tests running on Jenkins.
  
# Results

> What was the outcome of the project?

> During the investigation of the best ways to deploy the Jenkins build server, we decided to use the Amazon AWS will be the best choice in our situation, because of a couple of reasons: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the investigation of the best ways to deploy the Jenkins build server, we decided to use the Amazon AWS because of the following reasons: 
```

# Motivation

> What problem is this project solving?

Creating the Jenkins test environment will provide the data for the Metrics application.
The Jenkins test environment will give us the ability to test the whole process of importing and displaying the project metrics data.

# Goals

> Identify success metrics and measurable goals.

* Jenkins server is running and available for testing by anyone in the team.
* Configuration of the Jenkins to run the tests from the test project. 

# Non-Goals

> Identify what's not in scope.

The creation of the test project is not in the scope of this project.

# Design

> Explain and diagram the technical design

`Amazon AWS instance` -> `Jenkins Server`

> Identify risks and edge cases

Because different builds require different environments for Jenkins to run the build 
(in our case - we need to run the builds with npm, so the Node.js is required), we need to run 
the builds in a separate docker container and this could require an additional configuration, 
for example, configuring the docker client, or Jenkins user roles to be able to run the docker container, etc.

# API

> What will the proposed API look like?

> The Jenkins API is described in this article: [Jenkins remote access api](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Remote+access+API).

Reviewer 2: I think there we should describe our suggestion in deploying Jenkins instance to Amazon AWS. For example: 
- `API` section will provide a short annotation about our suggestion. 
- The first subsection (like `Why Amazon AWS?`) will generally describe the `pros` of the suggested approach.
- The second subsection (like `Deploying to Amazon AWS`) will provide more deploying details (i.e. tips).
- The last subsection (like `More configurations`) will generally describe the `cons` of the suggested approach.

All of these points are aimed to remove `Amazon AWS` from the `Alternatives Considered` and `Results` sections since Amazon is not an alternative - this is our choice, and is not the result - the result should match `Goals`. 

What do you think about this?

# Dependencies

> What is the project blocked on?

No blockers.

> What will be impacted by the project?

Testing of the Jenkins integration will be impacted.

# Testing

> How will the project be tested?

This project will be tested manually.

# Alternatives Considered

> Summarize alternative designs (pros & cons)

> * Setups Jenkins server on Amazon AWS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Setup Jenkins server on Amazon AWS.
```

    - Pros:
         - The AWS instance is free for one year.
         - Has an excellent [setup guide](https://d1.awsstatic.com/Projects/P5505030/aws-project_Jenkins-build-server.pdf) that explains how to create an instance and deploy the Jenkins server.
         - Easy to maintain. You could just connect to the AWS instance and use it and use it the way that you would use a computer in front of you.
    - Cons:
         - You need to configure the AWS instance and firewall rules manually via the user interface (no automation available), which takes a bit more time in comparison to using the Google Kubernetes deployment.
         
         
* Setup Jenkins on Google Kubernetes Engine.
    - Pros:  

>          - Easy to set up. The configuration process is fully automated, and it is needed just to configure Jenkins projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         - Easy to set up. The configuration process is fully automated - only Jenkins projects configuration is required.
```

           It is needed just to go through the [Jenkins Google cloud setup flow](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/google/jenkins).
         - Jenkins has a [free application](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/google/jenkins) on the Google Cloud.
    - Cons: 
         - The Kubernetes Engine is the paid feature of the Google Cloud that uses a couple of other paid features like Compute Engine.

>          - Hard to maintain because you cannot just SSH connect to the instance with the Jenkins server to make any changes. For connection, you need to use the "kubectl" CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         - Hard to maintain because you cannot just SSH connect to the instance with the Jenkins server to make any changes. For connection, you need to use the `kubectl` CLI.
```

> * Serve the Jenkins server using the local machine and ngrok.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Serve the Jenkins server using the local machine and `ngrok`.
```

    - Pros:
         - Easy to setup. You need just to run the Jenkins locally and set up the tunnel to the localhost using the ngrok for other users to be able to connect.
    - Cons: 
         - Because Jenkins stores the data (pipeline configurations, build, build artifacts, etc.) locally,
          using the file system, the Jenkins instance should be running on the same machine all the time.
         - The server will be very dependent on that configured server availability (app availability, computer availability).
         
         
* Setup Jenkins on Google Compute Engine.
    - Pros:
         - Easy to connect to the container using SSH to make any changes to the Jenkins.
    - Cons: 
         - Pretty complicated setup mechanism because we have a lot of configuration items.
         - We should set up the Jenkins storage manually in some other place like [Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage)

>           because the Compute Engine instance has too few memory to store all tools, required by Jenkins, and builds and artifacts on the instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          because the Compute Engine instance has too few memory to store all tools, required by Jenkins, and builds with artifacts on the instance.
```
